welcome to Japanese cooking 101 today we
are going to make California roll to
make California roll or any sushi
we need sushi rice which is quite easy
to make you can see our sushi rice
recipe and a how to video on Japanese
cooking 101.com
let's take a look at the ingredients we
have one recipe of sushi rice two sheets
of roasted seaweed or sushi nori in
Japanese cutting two halves one can of
craft me lightly seasoned with lemon
juice and salt one avocado cut into
sticks one cucumber cut into sticks and
some roasted white sesame seeds to make
a roll you need a bamboo rolling mat
called Maki so we put a plastic wrap on
top of the bamboo mat and place a
seaweed this is a half a size of a
regular size seed then spread some rice
on top
you should wet your hands to do that so
the rice won't get stuck on your fingers
spread the rice on the seaweed by
pushing it down lightly but not too hard
you can find this bamboo rolling mat at
Asian grocery stores if you have one
nearby or you can order one online and
sprinkle some toasted white sesame seeds
on top of rice now lift one side up and
flip it over rice side down on the
plastic wrap now put some craft meat
mixture horizontally on one side of the
seaweed giving about a one-inch space
from the end it's quite not in the
middle but let's say about a third of a
way closer to your side and some
cucumber sticks and avocado
once everything is placed on top of this
seaweed grab a bamboo mat and roll it up
just like a jelly roll cake first you
roll to cover the fillings with the rice
and seaweed squeeze lightly and roll the
rest of the way just like that and
squeeze again after you finish rolling
all the way and maybe one more time to
roll a little bit further and squeeze
one last time it doesn't look so bad
don't worry if you make a mistake and
get messy you will get used to it fairly
quickly and remove it from the plastic
wrap and cut it into six to eight pieces
see it's not that hard is it California
roll
you